---
layout: post
title: TSOC 2020 - Halftime
description: >
  Students are mid-way through Google Summer of Code 2020 🎉 
  A lot of progress already visible.
  Read on to get a brief overview of the progress of all projects during the first half.

author: agent-q1, RatMoleRat, Sin3point14, Meet
header-img: "/img/2020-07-19-gsoc-2020-midterm/lonely-tree-island.png"
---

// Introduction about TSOC

# Tutorial Pathfinding and Metal Renegades
## - by _agent-q1_



# Weather Manager Improvements
## - by _RatMoleRat_

This project aims at giving a more immersive feel to the player by making the landscape and climate more dynamic. Climate would affect various landscape phenomena such as erosion, accumulation of rain water as puddles, and melting snow. The environment would also impact whether snow would melt, whether puddles would evaporate and things as such.
_RatMoleRat_ tried to unite various aspects of world generation along with improvements to the WeatherManager module.

_RatMoleRat_ has been able to successfully create an initial water cycle. When raining, rainfall as well as snow accumulates on the ground. Once sunny, the snow melts into water puddles, and then further gets evaporated into the atmosphere.
This adds to the realism of the game. 

Further, the project called for the addition of variable maps. These maps would store varying information about the Temperature, humidity, air pressure and similiar factors that would affect the climate at a point. These maps would decide if rainfall would occur, if snow would melt, if water would freeze or any other climatic phenomena we observe in real life.

With the next review cycle coming in, _RatMoleRat_ should be able to include more variable maps, and also implement interesting features such as erosion of land with blocks moving from one place to another.

